---
layout: about
title: Portfolio
permalink: /about/
---

**Anthony Faustine** is a [Data Scientist at CeADAR (UCD), Dublin, Ireland](https://www.ceadar.ie/) with over four years of successful experience in data analytics and Artificial Intelligence techniques for multiple applications. He effectively investigates methods for novel approaches to problems and develops prototypes to assess their viability. Although Anthony is a person who takes the initiative, he has a strong team spirit with experience working in a highly international environment. He is proficient in machine learning techniques and deep learning for multiple applications with sound data analytical, data visualization, and programming skills, especially in Python. 

At CeADER, Anthony is devising and implementing data analytics/AI technical solutions for various application domains. He is also involved in the research and development of the applicability of Artificial Intelligence for [Earth Observation](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Earth_observation) (AI4EO). He is currently finalizing a six-month research project that explores how EO imagery data can be combined with geospatial data to automate the process of generating an annotated dataset for building AI models specific to EO imagery. During this time, Mr. Anthony successfully led the team to develop a flexible end-to-end pipeline that combines satellite imagery and geo-referenced dataset to create the annotated dataset and build machine learning models. He also works on another project in partnership with the European Space Agency(ESA) to investigate specifications and best practices for creating the EO dataset for AI applications. 

Mr. Faustine received the B.sc. Degree in Electronics Science and Communication from the University of Dar es Salaam, Tanzania, and the M.sc. Degree in Telecommunications Engineering from the University of Dodoma, Tanzania, in 2010. From 2010 to 2017, he worked as an assistant lecturer at the University of Dodoma, Tanzania, where he was involved in several research projects within the context of ICT4D. 

In 2017, Anthony joined IDLab, imec research group of the University of Ghent, in Belgium as a Machine learning researcher. His research focused on machine learning techniques applied to energy smart-meter data. He was also involved in the development of machine learning models that analyze data monitored from the internet of things (IoT) devices to detect and classify activities in the smart-homes environment. This opportunity has allowed me to drastically expand his research, data analytics, and machine learning skills. Working closely with other departments allowed him to improve his interpersonal skills and present complex technical information to technical and non-technical personnel. Since Feb 2020, Mr. Faustine has been working with [Dr. Lucas Pereira](https://www.alspereira.info/) of ITI, LARSyS, Técnico Lisboa
& Prsma.com on robust machine learning techniques for energy-disaggregation and how [energy-disaggregation](https://sambaiga.github.io/sambaiga/projects/2019-01-02-robust-nilm/) could solve real-world problems in smart-grid. These opportunities have allowed him to drastically expand his technical ability, critical thinking, project management, and research skills. 

By participating in different research projects, Mr. Faustine has learned to describe the project's specific objectives and its excellence and impact. He has also gained experience writing grant proposals and scientific publications, handling and analyzing large datasets, and generating insights from data. 

Moreover, Mr. Faustine is competent in communicating complex ideas to groups of different disciplines in simple language. He acquired these abilities from his previous job as an assistant lecturer. The competence advanced through volunteer activities where He organized and facilitated a [capacity development workshop](https://sambaiga.github.io/sambaiga/talks/) on data science and machine learning to university students in Tanzania. As a result, Mr. Faustine can conduct training, demonstrations, and sharing results to technical and non-technical audiences.

Mr. Faustine's research interests lie in the intersections between Machine learning, Signal processing, and Computational Sustainability. He works towards bridging the gap between research and real-world applicability of machine learning for sustainable development.

